# The environment
We will pay a lot of attention to the environment on this module. As we shall see later in the module, the behaviour of many systems - such as animals and robots - both takes place in and is shaped by the the system's environment. As we shall see in today's lecture, and again in future classes, the environment also often plays a crucial role in causing systems, or collections of systems such as species, to adapt. All processes of adaptation involve change, but they are also often driven or provoked by change in a system's environment.

I chose the quote from Wilson's book as the title of this section because it captures one important theme of today's lecture very simply and clearly, in just a few words. In evolution through natural selection, it is often the environment which determines which mutations are beneficial and which are not. To be slightly more precise, the mutations which tend to be beneficial to a species with respect to its environment will tend to be more successful in reproducing than the less beneficial genes which they compete with. I have deliberately used the words tend to twice here, because the relationship between genes and the environment is really a statistical one - to give one example of why: even an individual which is very well adapted to its environment can get unlucky and fall off a cliff, or be struck by a falling meteor, so there is always an element of probability involved in survival, and therefore also in the reproduction of genes. To give another example of why, some genes may only be beneficial, or alternatively detrimental, to survival when they appear in combination with other genes. In this case, the frequency with which those combinations of genes appear together will affect how beneficial - on average - the individual genes are.

# Timescales
Another central concept in today's lecture, and the module, is time. Today, our main interest in time is related to rates of change. Many features of the universe and our environment change so slowly in comparison to the rates of change of our own lives, our civilisations, or even our very species, that we can can treat them as effectively invariant, i.e. unchanging. For example, we know that our sun is billions of years old, and will survive for billions more - it may be a somewhat volatile system, and prone to various fluctuations and emissions, but its presence as this planet's energy source is effectively invariant over the timescales of a single life, a civilisation, or even that of a mountain. The current rate of change in average global temperatures, on the other hand, is highly concerning, for many reasons. One of these reasons is that we humans have not yet demonstrated a sufficiently high rate of change in reducing our pollution of the environment for it to be clear whether or not we will eventually arrest or reverse global warming. When adaptations are necessitated by dangerous changes in the environment, the processes of adaptation which might address those dangers can only be successful if their rates of change are high enough. If we are going to adapt, in order to prevent further global warming and hopefully also reverse it, then we will need to do so more quickly than we have so far. If we do not, then - apart from the direct dangers to our health and homes - many species may become extinct, as evolutionary rates of change rarely keep up with rapid environmental changes such as the current climate change.

# Adaptive systems terminology
In the lecture, I draw attention to the fact that words like adaptation and adaptive can be defined in various ways. In a book which I like very much, but don't always agree with, Mayr wrote this:

"The legitimate use of the word adaptation is for a property of an organism, whether a structure, a physiological trait, a behavior, or anything else that the organism possesses, that is favored by selection over alternative traits. But the term has also been used quite incorrectly for the process ("adaptation") by which the favored trait was actively acquired. 

...

Adaptation is a completely a posteriori phenomenon for a Darwinian, that is, based on the inductive assessment of facts. In every generation, all individuals that survive the process of elimination are de facto "adapted" and so are their properties that enabled them to survive." [2]

The two things I like the most about the text I quote here are:

It is quite precise about what should or shouldn't be considered an adaptation. This makes it easy for me see that I don't entirely agree with it.
Implicitly, adaptation is being defined (at least partly) in terms of the relationship between an individual and its environment, as individuals that survive the process of elimination must be well matched to their environments (in other words, fit).
The main things I don't like about the text I quote here are:

Unlike Mayr, I do think that is is appropriate to use the term adaptation to describe processes. As I mention in the lecture, like Futuyama and Kilpatrick, I think we can use the word in two different ways: 1. To refer to characteristics (alternatively properties or traits), as Mayr does, and 2. To describe the processes which those characteristics result from - we just have to be very clear at all times on which meaning we are using.
I am not convinced that all individuals that survive the process of elimination should be called adapted, or that all the individuals that do not survive the process of elimination should not be called adapted. I find population-based (and statistical) perspectives on this subject more convincing, but that subject is beyond the scope of this module.
As I mention in the module, the word adaptive can also have multiple meanings, for the same reasons as for the word adaptation. In some cases, one way that we can resolve the ambiguity this causes is to refer to a system as self-adaptive. By this I mean a system which adapts itself, through its own processes of adaptation. Often, but not always, this involves one subsystem of the self-adaptive system making changes to another of its subsystems. For example, consider a robot which learns to perform some task. This robot may have a subsystem which implements a learning algorithm. That subsystem does not change itself, but it does make changes to another subsystem which is the robot's neural network, by changing the network parameters (e.g. weights and biases). In this particular example, the processes of adaptation belong to one subsystem (which does not change), and the subsystem which is changed (or adapted) has no processes of adaptation. We will begin to study self-adaptive systems with this kind of organisation in the second week of this module.

Broadly speaking, the two main categories of adaptive system that we study on this module are systems that evolve and systems that learn.  You will notice that in these notes and in the first lecture, I spend more time on the subject of evolution than I do on learning. There will be more material on some different kinds of learning in our future classes, but I will not be spending much time on the kind of algorithms and material which you have already covered on the Machine Learning module.
